Update best practices doc (#204)
GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-spanner-hibernate: README.adoc

== User Guide

This guide contains a variety of best practices for using Hibernate with Spanner which can significantly improve the performance of your application.

=== Schema Creation and Entity Design

> Hibernate generates statements based on your Hibernate entity's design. Following these practices can result in better DDL and DML statement generation which can improve performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hibernate generates statements based on your Hibernate entity design. Following these practices can result in better DDL and DML statement generation which can improve performance.
```

Reviewer: Because it's going to be based on multiple entities, and doing "entity's" vs "entities" is too pedantic for me. "entity design" covers both.

Author: Done.

> ==== Use Generated UUIDs for ID Generation

Reviewer: Do you want to comment on why autogenerated is better than self-created?

Author: Done.

This results in sequential IDs that are https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/schema-and-data-model#primary_keys[not optimal for Cloud Spanner] and makes use of the `hibernate_sequence` table for generating IDs.

> ==== Generate Schema for faster development

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Auto-generate schema for faster development
```

Author: Done.

Hibernate performs schema updates on each table and entity type on startup, which can take more than several minutes if there are many tables. To avoid schema updates keeping Hibernate from starting for several minutes, you can update schemas separately and use the `none` or `validate` settings.

> ==== Use Constraints Generation to leverage Spanner foreign keys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Leverage Cloud Spanner foreign key constraints
```

Author: Done.

The dialect also supports unique column constraints applied through `@Column(unique = true)` or `@UniqueConstraint`.
In these cases, the dialect will create a unique index to enforce uniqueness on the specified columns.

> ==== Use Interleaved Tables for Parent-Child entities for better performance

Reviewer 2: inconsistent capitalization?
```suggestion
==== Use Interleaved Tables for parent-child relationships for better performance
```

This could also go under performance section, or link back to it?

Author: Done. Also moved to performance section.

}
----

=== Performance Optimizations

There are some practices which can improve the execution time of your statements as well.

==== Be Clear about Inserts or Updates

Sometimes you may generate IDs for their entities in your code instead of relying on the `@GeneratedValue` annotation.

```
DbEntity entity = new DbEntity();
entity.id = UUID.randomUUID();
session.saveOrUpdate(entity);
```

This practice may result in Hibernate executing additional `SELECT` statements that you may not have expected because it will perform a `SELECT` on the table to determine if a record in the table already has the entity's ID. If so, it will perform an update, otherwise it will save a new entity.

These extra `SELECT` statements could yield large performance issues because they may lock an entire table depending on how they are generated.

In these cases, we recommend to either:

> * Let Hibernate generate the ID by leaving the entity's `id` null and annotate the field with `@GeneratedValue`. Hibernate will know that the record did not exist prior if it generates a new ID.

Reviewer: This might be better in "use generated UUIDs" section, with this current section just linking to it for the first solution. And then this section would have only the use-persist-to-be-explicit-about-inserts.

Author: Done.

> * Or use `session.persist()` which explicitly will simply attempt the insert without generating an `ID`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Or use `session.persist()` which will simply attempt the insert without generating an `ID`.
```

Author: Done.

                                         WHERE s.LastName LIKE '%x%'
                                         AND a.AlbumTitle LIKE '%love%';");

// Executes the query.
List<Object[]> entities = query.list();
----

Also, you may consult the https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/sql-best-practices[Cloud Spanner documentation] on general recommendations for optimizing performance.

== Cloud Spanner Hibernate ORM Limitations

The Cloud Spanner Hibernate Dialect supports most of the standard Hibernate and Java Persistence annotations, but there are minor differences in supported features because of differences in Cloud Spanner from other traditional SQL databases.

[options="header"]
|===
| Unsupported Feature | Description
| Large DML Transactions | Each Spanner transaction may only have up to 20,000 operations which modify rows of a table.
| Catalog and schema scoping for table names | Tables name references cannot contain periods or other punctuation.
| Column default values | The dialect does not set default values based on the `@ColumnDefault` annotation, because Cloud Spanner does not support column defaults in the DDL.
|===

> === Limit Large DML Transactions

Reviewer: nit: other headings are noun phrases. Perhaps "Large DML transactions" or "Large DML transactions limits"?

Author: Done.

Cloud Spanner has a mutation limit on each transaction - each Spanner transaction https://cloud.google.com/spanner/quotas#limits_for_creating_reading_updating_and_deleting_data[may only have up to 20,000 operations which modify rows of a table].

> NOTE: Deleting a row counts as one operation and inserting/updating rows will count as a number of operations equal to the number of affected columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Deleting a row counts as one operation and inserting/updating a single row will count as a number of operations equal to the number of affected columns.
```

Reviewer: Over multiple rows, it would be numRows x numColumns, right? Might want to link to https://cloud.google.com/spanner/quotas#note2 or similar, since this is an intrinsically confusing aspect.

Author: Done.

}
----

=== Performance Optimizations

There are some practices which can improve the execution time of Hibernate operations.

> ==== Be Clear about Inserts or Updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Be clear about inserts vs. updates
```

Author: Done.

Hibernate may generate additional `SELECT` statements if it is unclear whether you are attempting to insert a new record or update an existing record. The following practices can help with this:

* Let Hibernate generate the ID by leaving the entity's `id` null and annotate the field with `@GeneratedValue`. Hibernate will know that the record did not exist prior if it generates a new ID. See the <<Use Generated UUIDs for ID Generation, above section>> for more details.

> * Or use `session.persist()` which will simply attempt the insert without generating an `ID`.

Reviewer 2: I believe it will still generate and ID if needed.
```suggestion
* Or use `session.persist()` which will explicitly attempt the insert.
```

Author: Done.

The property is set to `100` as an example; you may experiment with the batch size to see what works best for your application.

==== JDBC Parameter Tuning

The Spanner JDBC driver allows you to set the number of GRPC channels initialized through the JDBC connection URL.

> Each channel can support up to 100 concurrent requests; for application that require a high amount of concurrency this value can be increased (from the default of 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each channel can support up to 100 concurrent requests; for applications that require a high amount of concurrency this value can be increased (from the default of 4).
```

Author: Done.

[options="header"]
|===
| Unsupported Feature | Description

> | Large DML Transaction Limits | Each Spanner transaction may only have up to 20,000 operations which modify rows of a table.

Reviewer: This should probably stay as "Transaction", since the column header is "unsupported feature".

Author: Done.
